#57 Add documentation for first 7 USD tutorials (#58)
Inbibo/shift_docs: docs/integration_resources/resources/usd_tutorials/usd_tutorial_05.md

## Traversing a Stage

This tutorial focuses on traversing the composed prims on a UsdStage, using the operators from the Shift_USD catalog. The example will reuse the layer files generated in the previous tutorial [Referencing Layers](usd_tutorial_03.md).

Also, the base files for the example, `HelloWorld.usda` and `RefExample.usda`, can be downloaded from the [OpenUSD](https://github.com/PixarAnimationStudios/OpenUSD) Github project repository, from `extras/usd/tutorials/traversingStage/` folder.

### Tutorial

1. Open Shift application. A new window's instance of Shift should appear like the following one:

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_05/step_01_t05.png" alt="Shift UI.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 1</b>: Shift UI.</figcaption>
</figure>

>[!NOTE]
> Before creating the USD workflow, ensure that the USD nodes appear in the Node List widget. The catalogs combobox should show `sUSD` and `sUSDTypes` if USD is correctly loaded in Shift. If this is not the case, please check again the [Shift_USD installation page](../usd#installation).

> 2. Add a new *UsdStageOpen* node to the board and rename it as *OpenStage*. Using the **Inspector** widget, set as the value for the **filepath** input plug a filepath pointing to the `RefExample.usda` file. For the current example, the filepath can be: `D:/USD_TUTORIALS/05/RefExample.usda`. The board should look like the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Add a new *UsdStageOpen* node to the board and rename it as *OpenStage*. Using the **Inspector** widget, set as the value for the **filepath** input plug a filepath pointing to the `RefExample.usda` file. For the current example, the filepath will be: `D:/USD_TUTORIALS/05/RefExample.usda`. The board should look like the following:
```

    <figcaption><b>Figure 3</b>: Added 'TraverseStage' node to the board connected to 'OpenStage'.</figcaption>
</figure>

4. Execute the current workflow for checking the **prims** output plug from the *TraverseStage* node. The value of the plug should be: `[Usd.Prim(</refSphere>), Usd.Prim(</refSphere/world>), Usd.Prim(</refSphere2>), Usd.Prim(</refSphere2/world>)]`, containing all the prims that build the stage. The board should look like the following:

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_05/step_04_t05.png" alt="'TraverseStage' node prims plug value.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 4</b>: 'TraverseStage' node prims plug value.</figcaption>
</figure>

5. For filtering the values of the **prims** output plug in the *TraverseStage* node, set the **primType** input plug to `Sphere`. Execute again the node to refresh the output plug result. Once the node is executed again the plug value should be: `[Usd.Prim(</refSphere/world>), Usd.Prim(</refSphere2/world>)]`. The board should look like the following:

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_05/step_05_t05.png" alt="'TraverseStage' node prims plug value filtering by 'Sphere' primtype.">

>     <figcaption><b>Figure 5</b>: 'TraverseStage' node prims plug value filtering by 'Sphere' primtype.</figcaption>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <figcaption><b>Figure 5</b>: 'TraverseStage' node prims plug value filtering by 'Sphere' prim type.</figcaption>
```

Author: Done

</figure>

> 6. In order to activate/deactivate a prim in an specific layer, for the current example, the session layer, add a new *UsdStageSessionLayerGet* node and rename it as *SessionLayerGet*. Connect the **stage** output plug from the *OpenStage* node to the **stage** input plug of the new node. The board should look like the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. To activate/deactivate a prim in a specific layer, for the current example, the session layer, add a new *UsdStageSessionLayerGet* node and rename it as *SessionLayerGet*. Connect the **stage** output plug from the *OpenStage* node to the **stage** input plug of the new node. The board should look like the following:
```

Author: Done

</figure>

11. Select the *TraverseStage* node and change the value of the **primType** input plug to `Any`. Execute the selected node only to recompute the **prims** output plug value. The value of the **prims** output plug should not contain the disabled prim and children anymore. The board should look like the following:

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_05/step_11_t05.png" alt="Re-executing the 'TraverseStage' node after deactivating a prim.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 11</b>: Re-executing the 'TraverseStage' node after deactivating a prim.</figcaption>
</figure>

12. Now, with the *TraverseStage* node selected, set the **traverseAll** input plug value to `True`. Execute the selected node only to recompute the **prims** output plug value. The value of the **prims** output plug should be: `[Usd.Prim(</refSphere>), Usd.Prim(</refSphere/world>), Usd.Prim(</refSphere2>)]`. The board should look like the following:

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_05/step_12_t05.png" alt="Re-executing the 'TraverseStage' node will traverseAll plug set to True.">

>     <figcaption><b>Figure 12</b>: Re-executing the 'TraverseStage' node will traverseAll plug set to True.</figcaption>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <figcaption><b>Figure 12</b>: Re-executing the 'TraverseStage' node will *traverseAll* plug set to True.</figcaption>
```

Author: Done

## Traversing a Stage

> This tutorial is focused on traversing the composed prims on a UsdStage, using the operators from the Shift_USD catalog. The example will reuse the layer files generated in the previous tutorial [Referencing Layers](usd_tutorial_03.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This tutorial focuses on traversing the composed prims on a UsdStage, using the operators from the Shift_USD catalog. The example will reuse the layer files generated in the previous tutorial [Referencing Layers](usd_tutorial_03.md).
```

Also, the base files for the example, `HelloWorld.usda` and `RefExample.usda`, can be downloaded from the [OpenUSD](https://github.com/PixarAnimationStudios/OpenUSD) Github project repository, from `extras/usd/tutorials/traversingStage/` folder.

### Tutorial

1. Open Shift application. A new window's instance of Shift should appear like the following one:

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_05/step_01_t05.png" alt="Shift UI.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 1</b>: Shift UI.</figcaption>
</figure>

> 2. First, add a new **<tt>UsdStageOpen</tt>** node to the board and rename it as `OpenStage`. Using the **Inspector** widget, set as the value for the **filepath** input plug a filepath pointing to the `RefExample.usda` file. For the current example, the filepath can be: `D:/USD_TUTORIALS/05/RefExample.usda`. The board should look like the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2.  Add a new **<tt>UsdStageOpen</tt>** node to the board and rename it as `OpenStage`. Using the **Inspector** widget, set as the value for the **filepath** input plug a filepath pointing to the `RefExample.usda` file. For the current example, the filepath can be: `D:/USD_TUTORIALS/05/RefExample.usda`. The board should look like the following:
```

</figure>

3. For traversing the stage, add a new **<tt>UsdStageTraverse</tt>** node to the board and rename it as `TraverseStage`. Connect the **stage** output plug from the `OpenStage` node to the **stage** input plug of the new node. Leave the **primType** input plug set to `Any` and the **traverseAll** input plug set to `False`. The board should look like the following:

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_05/step_03_t05.png" alt="Added 'TraverseStage' node to the board connected to 'OpenStage'.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 3</b>: Added 'TraverseStage' node to the board connected to 'OpenStage'.</figcaption>
</figure>

4. Execute the current workflow for checking the **prims** output plug from the `TraverseStage` node. The value of the plug should be: `[Usd.Prim(</refSphere>), Usd.Prim(</refSphere/world>), Usd.Prim(</refSphere2>), Usd.Prim(</refSphere2/world>)]`, containing all the prims that build the stage. The board should look like the following:

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_05/step_04_t05.png" alt="'TraverseStage' node prims plug value.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 4</b>: 'TraverseStage' node prims plug value.</figcaption>
</figure>

> 5. For filtering the values of the **prims** output plug in the `TraverseStage` node, set the **primType** input plug to `Sphere`. Execute again the node for refreshing the output plug result. The value of the plug once the node is executed again should be: `[Usd.Prim(</refSphere/world>), Usd.Prim(</refSphere2/world>)]`. The board should look like the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. For filtering the values of the **prims** output plug in the `TraverseStage` node, set the **primType** input plug to `Sphere`. Execute again the node to refresh the output plug result. Once the node is executed again the plug value should be: `[Usd.Prim(</refSphere/world>), Usd.Prim(</refSphere2/world>)]`. The board should look like the following:
```

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_05/step_05_t05.png" alt="'TraverseStage' node prims plug value filtering by 'Sphere' primtype.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 5</b>: 'TraverseStage' node prims plug value filtering by 'Sphere' primtype.</figcaption>
</figure>

6. In order to activate/deactivate a prim in an specific layer, for the current example, the session layer, add a new **<tt>UsdStageSessionLayerGet</tt>** node and rename it as `SessionLayerGet`. Connect the **stage** output plug from the `OpenStage` node to the **stage** input plug of the new node. The board should look like the following:

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_05/step_06_t05.png" alt="Added the 'SessionLayerGet' node to the board connected to the 'OpenStage' node.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 6</b>: Added the 'SessionLayerGet' node to the board connected to the 'OpenStage' node.</figcaption>
</figure>

> 7. Now, setting the edit target of the stage is important, in this way, any modification done will affect specifically to that layer instead of the root layer of the stage. Add a new **<tt>UsdStageEditTargetSet</tt>** node and rename it as `SessionLayerTargetSet`. Connect the **stage** and **sessionLayer** output plugs from the `SessionLayerGet` node to the **stage** and **layer** input plugs, respectively, of the new node. The board should look like the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. Setting the edit target layer of the stage is important so that any modification done to the stage is registered in that layer instead of the root layer. Add a new **<tt>UsdStageEditTargetSet</tt>** node and rename it as `SessionLayerTargetSet`. Connect the **stage** and **sessionLayer** output plugs from the `SessionLayerGet` node to the **stage** and **layer** input plugs, respectively, of the new node. The board should look like the following:
```

</figure>

9. Add a new **<tt>UsdPrimDisable</tt>** node and rename it as `RefSphere2Disable`. Connect the **prim** output plug from the `RefSphere2Get` node to the **prim** input plug of the new node and set the value of the **disabled** input plug to `True` too. The board should look like the following:

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_05/step_09_t05.png" alt="Added the 'RefSphere2Disable' node to the board connected to the 'RefSphere2Get' node.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 9</b>: Added the 'RefSphere2Disable' node to the board connected to the 'RefSphere2Get' node.</figcaption>
</figure>

10. Now, select the nodes `SessionLayerGet`, `SessionLayerTargetSet`, `RefSphere2Get` and `RefSphere2Disable` and execute only the selected nodes. Once the execution has finished, the board should look like the following:

<figure>
    <img src="images/usd_tutorial_05/step_10_t05.png" alt="Executing workflow only on 'SessionLayerGet', 'SessionLayerTargetSet', 'RefSphere2Get' and 'RefSphere2Disable' nodes.">
    <figcaption><b>Figure 10</b>: Executing workflow only on 'SessionLayerGet', 'SessionLayerTargetSet', 'RefSphere2Get' and 'RefSphere2Disable' nodes.</figcaption>
</figure>

> 11. Select the `TraverseStage` node and change the value of the **primType** input plug to `Any`. Execute the selected node only to recompute the **prims** output plug value. The value of the **prims** output plug should be: `[Usd.Prim(</refSphere>), Usd.Prim(</refSphere/world>)]`, the disabled prim and children will be missing now. The board should look like the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
11. Select the `TraverseStage` node and change the value of the **primType** input plug to `Any`. Execute the selected node only to recompute the **prims** output plug value. The value of the **prims** output plug should not contain the disabled prim and children anymore. The board should look like the following:
```
